test/README.md, before:

# Core

## Adding new tests

Add a new file under `test/onmt/` following this template:

```lua
-- The test manager `tester` is passed by the calling script.
local tester = ...

local myTests = torch.TestSuite()

function myTests.trueIsTrue()
  tester:eq(true, true)
end

return myTests
```

It will be automatically loaded by the test script.

## Running tests

1. Go to the top-level OpenNMT directory
2. `th test/test.lua`

# Tokenization

## Adding new tests

1. Create the input raw text file `<name>_<mode>_<joiner_annotate>_<case_feature>[_<bpe_model>].raw`, where:
   * `<name>` is the name of the test case without underscore
   * `<mode>` is the value of the `-mode` option on `tokenize.lua`
   * `<joiner_annotate>` is the marker of the `-joiner_annotate` option on `tokenize.lua`
   * `<case_feature>` is the value of the `-case_feature` option on `tokenize.lua` and `detokenize.lua`
   * *(optional)* `<bpe_model>` is the name of the file in `bpe-models/` for the `-bpe_model` option on `tokenize.lua`
2. Create the expected tokenized output file `<name>.tokenized`
3. *(optional)* Create the expected tokenized output file `<name>.tokenized.new` that will be compared to the output produced with the `-joiner_new` option
3. *(optional)* Create the expected detokenized output file `<name>.detokenized`.
   If this file is not provided, the detokenization of `<name>.tokenized` and `<name>.tokenized.new` must match the raw input text.

## Running tests

1. Go to the top-level OpenNMT directory
2. `sh test/tokenization/test.sh`

Commit message:

Support running a subset of the test suite

test/README.md, after:

# Core

## Adding new tests

Add a new file under `test/onmt/` following this template:

```lua
-- The test manager `tester` is passed by the calling script.
local tester = ...

local myTests = torch.TestSuite()

function myTests.trueIsTrue()
  tester:eq(true, true)
end

return myTests
```

It will be automatically loaded by the test script.

## Running tests

1. Go to the top-level OpenNMT directory
2. `th test/test.lua`

You can run a subset of the test suite by passing a list of test name patterns. For example:

```
th test/test.lua Batch Dataset
```

will run tests containing `Batch` and `Dataset` in their name.

# Tokenization

## Adding new tests

1. Create the input raw text file `<name>_<mode>_<joiner_annotate>_<case_feature>[_<bpe_model>].raw`, where:
   * `<name>` is the name of the test case without underscore
   * `<mode>` is the value of the `-mode` option on `tokenize.lua`
   * `<joiner_annotate>` is the marker of the `-joiner_annotate` option on `tokenize.lua`
   * `<case_feature>` is the value of the `-case_feature` option on `tokenize.lua` and `detokenize.lua`
   * *(optional)* `<bpe_model>` is the name of the file in `bpe-models/` for the `-bpe_model` option on `tokenize.lua`
2. Create the expected tokenized output file `<name>.tokenized`
3. *(optional)* Create the expected tokenized output file `<name>.tokenized.new` that will be compared to the output produced with the `-joiner_new` option
3. *(optional)* Create the expected detokenized output file `<name>.detokenized`.
   If this file is not provided, the detokenization of `<name>.tokenized` and `<name>.tokenized.new` must match the raw input text.

## Running tests

1. Go to the top-level OpenNMT directory
2. `sh test/tokenization/test.sh`
