Word embeddings are learned using a lookup table. Each word is assigned to a random vector within this table that is simply updated with the gradients coming from the network.

## Pretrained

When training with small amounts of data, performance can be improved by starting with pretrained embeddings. The arguments `-pre_word_vecs_dec` and `-pre_word_vecs_enc` can be used to specify these files.

The pretrained embeddings must be manually constructed Torch serialized tensors that correspond to the source and target dictionary files. For example:

```lua
local vocab_size = 50004
local embedding_size = 500

local embeddings = torch.Tensor(vocab_size, embedding_size):uniform()

torch.save('enc_embeddings.t7', embeddings)
```

where `embeddings[i]` is the embedding of the \(i\)-th word in the vocabulary.

To automate this process, OpenNMT provides a script `tools/embeddings.lua` that can download pretrained embeddings from [Polyglot](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/polyglot) or convert trained embeddings from [word2vec](https://github.com/dav/word2vec), [GloVe](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) or [FastText](https://github.com/facebookresearch/fastText) with regard to the word vocabularies generated by `preprocess.lua`. Supported format are:

* `word2vec-bin` (default): binary format generated by word2vec.
* `word2vec-txt`: textual word2vec format - starts with header line containing number of words and embedding size, and is then followed by one line per embedding: the first token is the word, and following fields are the embeddings values.
* `glove`: text format - same format than `word2vec-txt` but without header line.

!!! note "Note"
    The script requires the `lua-zlib` package.

For example, to generate pretrained English words embeddings:

```bash
th tools/embeddings.lua -lang en -dict_file data/demo.src.dict -save_data data/demo-src-emb
```

!!! note "Note"
    Languages codes are Polygot's [Wikipedia Language Codes](https://sites.google.com/site/rmyeid/projects/polyglot).

Or to map pretrained *word2vec* vectors to the built vocabulary:

```bash
th tools/embeddings.lua -embed_type word2vec -embed_file data/GoogleNews-vectors-negative300.bin -dict_file data/demo.src.dict\
                        -save_data data/demo-src-emb
```

!!! tip "Tip"
    If vocabs as-is are not found in the embeddings file, you can use `-approximate` option to also look for uppercase variants and variants without possible joiner marks. You can dump the non found vocabs by setting `-save_unknown_dict` parameter.

## Fixed

By default these embeddings will be updated during training, but they can be held fixed using `-fix_word_vecs_enc` and `-fix_word_vecs_dec` options. These options can be enabled or disabled during a retraining.

!!! tip "Tip"
    When using pretrained word embeddings, if you declare a larger `-word_vec_size` then the difference is uniformally initalized and you can use `-fix_word_vecs_enc pretrained` (or `-fix_word_vecs_dec pretrained`) to fix the pretrained part and optimize the remaining part.

## Extraction

The `tools/extract_embeddings.lua` script can be used to extract the model word embeddings into text files. They can then be easily transformed into another format for visualization or processing.
