docs/training/models.md, before:

In addition to standard dimension settings like the number of layers, the hidden dimension size, etc., OpenNMT also provides various model architecture.

## Encoders

### Default encoder

The default encoder is a simple recurrent neural network (LSTM or GRU).

### Bidirectional encoder

The bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type brnn`) consists of two independent encoders: one encoding the normal sequence and the other the reversed sequence. The output and final states are concatenated or summed depending on the `-brnn_merge` option.

![Bidirectional encoder](../img/brnn.png)

### Pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder

The pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type pdbrnn`) is an alternative bidirectional encoder that reduces the time dimension after **each** layer based on the `-pdbrnn_reduction` factor and using `-pdbrnn_merge` as the reduction action (sum or concatenation).

![Pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder](../img/pdbrnn.png)

### Deep bidirectional encoder

The deep bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type dbrnn`) is an alternative bidirectional encoder where the outputs of every layers are summed (or concatenated) prior feeding to the next layer. It is a special case of a pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder without time reduction (i.e. `-pdbrnn_reduction = 1`).

![Deep bidirectional encoder](../img/dbrnn.png)

### Google's NMT encoder

The Google encoder (`-encoder_type gnmt`) is an encoder with a single bidirectional layer as described in [Wu et al. (2016)](../references.md#GNMT). The bidirectional states are concatenated and residual connections are enabled by default.

![Google's NMT encoder](../img/gnmt-encoder.png)

### CNN encoder

The CNN encoder (`-encoder_type cnn`) is an encoder based on several convolutional layers as described in [Gehring et al. (2017)](../references.md#CNNEncoder).

## Decoders

### Default decoder

The default decoder applies attention over the source sequence and implements input feeding by default.

Input feeding is an approach to feed attentional vectors "*as inputs to the next time steps to inform the model about past alignment decisions*" ([Luong et al. (2015)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1508.04025.pdf)). This can be disabled by setting `-input_feed 0`.

![Decoder with input feeding](../img/input_feed.png)

## Residual connections

With residual connections the input of a layer is element-wise added to the output before feeding to the next layer. This approach proved to be useful for the gradient flow with deep RNN stacks (more than 4 layers).

![RNN with residual connections](../img/residual.png)

The following components support residual connections with the `-residual` flag:

* default encoder
* bidirectional encoder
* default decoder

## Bridges

A bridge is an additional layer between the encoder and the decoder that defines how to pass the encoder states to the decoder. It can be one of the following:

* `-bridge copy` (default): the encoder states are copied
* `-bridge dense`: the encoder states are forwaded through a dense layer
* `-bridge dense_nonlinear`: the encoder states are forwaded through a dense layer followed by a non-linearity, here \(tanh\)
* `-bridge none`: the encoder states are not passed and the decoder initial states are set to zero

With the `copy` bridge, encoder and decoder should have the same structure (number of layers, final hidden size, etc.).

## Attention Model

Different models are available from [Luong (2015)](../references.md#Luong2015) "Global Attention Model".

![Global attentional model](../img/global-attention-model.png)

where:

$$a_t(s) = \frac{\mathrm{exp}(\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s))}{\sum_{s'} \mathrm{exp}(\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)}$$

and the score function is one of these:

* `dot`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=h_t^T\bar{h}_s$$
* `general`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=h_t^TW_a\bar{h}_s$$
* `concat`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=\nu_a^T.\mathrm{tanh}(W_a[h_t;\bar{h}_s])$$

The model is selected using `-global_attention` option or can be disabled with `-attention none` option. The default attention model is `general`.

Commit message:

CNN encoder: add options to be used to documentation

docs/training/models.md, after:

In addition to standard dimension settings like the number of layers, the hidden dimension size, etc., OpenNMT also provides various model architecture.

## Encoders

### Default encoder

The default encoder is a simple recurrent neural network (LSTM or GRU).

### Bidirectional encoder

The bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type brnn`) consists of two independent encoders: one encoding the normal sequence and the other the reversed sequence. The output and final states are concatenated or summed depending on the `-brnn_merge` option.

![Bidirectional encoder](../img/brnn.png)

### Pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder

The pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type pdbrnn`) is an alternative bidirectional encoder that reduces the time dimension after **each** layer based on the `-pdbrnn_reduction` factor and using `-pdbrnn_merge` as the reduction action (sum or concatenation).

![Pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder](../img/pdbrnn.png)

### Deep bidirectional encoder

The deep bidirectional encoder (`-encoder_type dbrnn`) is an alternative bidirectional encoder where the outputs of every layers are summed (or concatenated) prior feeding to the next layer. It is a special case of a pyramidal deep bidirectional encoder without time reduction (i.e. `-pdbrnn_reduction = 1`).

![Deep bidirectional encoder](../img/dbrnn.png)

### Google's NMT encoder

The Google encoder (`-encoder_type gnmt`) is an encoder with a single bidirectional layer as described in [Wu et al. (2016)](../references.md#GNMT). The bidirectional states are concatenated and residual connections are enabled by default.

![Google's NMT encoder](../img/gnmt-encoder.png)

### CNN encoder

The CNN encoder (`-encoder_type cnn`) is an encoder based on several convolutional layers as described in [Gehring et al. (2017)](../references.md#CNNEncoder).

It should be used either without a bridge or with a dense bridge (`-bridge dense`, `-bridge dense_nonlinear`, `-bridge none`. The default copy bridge doesn't work with this type of encoder.

It is also recommended to use CNN encoder either with a smaller learning rate than the default value 1 for SGD optimization (i.e. `-learning_rate 0.1`) or with ADAM optimization technique (i.e. `-optim adam`, `-learning_rate 0.0002`).


## Decoders

### Default decoder

The default decoder applies attention over the source sequence and implements input feeding by default.

Input feeding is an approach to feed attentional vectors "*as inputs to the next time steps to inform the model about past alignment decisions*" ([Luong et al. (2015)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1508.04025.pdf)). This can be disabled by setting `-input_feed 0`.

![Decoder with input feeding](../img/input_feed.png)

## Residual connections

With residual connections the input of a layer is element-wise added to the output before feeding to the next layer. This approach proved to be useful for the gradient flow with deep RNN stacks (more than 4 layers).

![RNN with residual connections](../img/residual.png)

The following components support residual connections with the `-residual` flag:

* default encoder
* bidirectional encoder
* default decoder

## Bridges

A bridge is an additional layer between the encoder and the decoder that defines how to pass the encoder states to the decoder. It can be one of the following:

* `-bridge copy` (default): the encoder states are copied
* `-bridge dense`: the encoder states are forwaded through a dense layer
* `-bridge dense_nonlinear`: the encoder states are forwaded through a dense layer followed by a non-linearity, here \(tanh\)
* `-bridge none`: the encoder states are not passed and the decoder initial states are set to zero

With the `copy` bridge, encoder and decoder should have the same structure (number of layers, final hidden size, etc.).

## Attention Model

Different models are available from [Luong (2015)](../references.md#Luong2015) "Global Attention Model".

![Global attentional model](../img/global-attention-model.png)

where:

$$a_t(s) = \frac{\mathrm{exp}(\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s))}{\sum_{s'} \mathrm{exp}(\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)}$$

and the score function is one of these:

* `dot`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=h_t^T\bar{h}_s$$
* `general`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=h_t^TW_a\bar{h}_s$$
* `concat`: $$\mathrm{score}(h_t,\bar{h}_s)=\nu_a^T.\mathrm{tanh}(W_a[h_t;\bar{h}_s])$$

The model is selected using `-global_attention` option or can be disabled with `-attention none` option. The default attention model is `general`.
